# Major-Project

It is essential to protect and encourage the use of naturally occurring plants for their therapeutic properties in India, where there is a long history of using herbs and plants for medicinal purposes. This is crucial, especially in rural places where there may not be as much access to high-tech medical facilities. Because of this, current study has turned its attention to the identification of these plants. This study uses a suitable machine learning strategy to achieve the goals of classification and identification. The proposed methodology is di- vided into three basic steps for actual recognition of plants: feature extraction, preprocessing, and classification. Grayscale conversion and border enhance- ment are two common image processing techniques that are performed during preprocessing. The Closure Operation of Morphology Transformation was em- ployed in feature extraction to close the phase gaps and to obtain 15 features that were then used in classification. One of the most important tasks in this work is creating the dataset, which entails gathering and analyzing photos of the leaves of roughly 32 kinds of medicinal plants that may be found locally in India. The main goal of this study is to compare the performance of Ran- dom Forest, which was found to be the most accurate in a previous study, with Support Vector Machine (SVM) and CNN, two of the most widely used algo- rithms for classifying these plants from our dataset. From this comparison, the most accurate classifier will be selected. We will design a user interface for this study that will enable people to access data about these plants.
